good afternoon i have a few different  things on my mind as i start this live  stream nice to see you all here this one  was announced in advance and i have a  little bit of a crowd  just as i hit the hit the record button  um as per usual if you guys want to  share the link do it with people who  would actually be interested in joining  the conversation you might know some  people you know people you've known for  years on facebook you might know people  on  twitter or tumblr or whatever platform  you use  but um you know i don't uh i don't  encourage you to spam  uh random reddit forums with my videos  but if you know someone uh who'd  actually be interested in joining the  conversation it might be might be  worthwhile let them know uh this is  going on a few different things in my  mind this has been the week in which the  protests in glasgow scotland  uh arose and fell and um  i made a series of videos really warning  people about what extinction rebellion  were planning and promising to do and of  course they accomplished  nothing of the sort  um it's also a week in which following  brief commentary uh arose in my my  patreon forum so one uh patreon  asked the question  in response to a recent video of mine  this really begs the question as to as  to why so many intellectuals live such  lonely miserable existences that often  end in suicide or death by alcoholism so  this is not me speaking this is one of  my supporters on patreon speaking uh  continue the quotation i'd say that  developing the life of the mind comes  with the risk of attracting people that  will take the most intimate parts of you  colon intellectual property  now  i think he's  very poorly expressing a good or  interesting point there when we say  someone takes your intellectual property  normally you mean something like they  you you wrote a song and they stole the  song from you or something you created a  cartoon character and they made their  own comic book or movie on your cartoon  character i do not think that's that's  what this person  meant here years ago i can remember  talking about how people cope with being  judged and judging others  and the relentless shallowness of our  society in so many ways but whenever i  made those videos i would point out  by contrast or in close parallel that  being judged based on your intelligence  or being judged based on the quality of  your writing and so on and so forth  being judged on your your intellectual  merit can can be even more heartbreaking  um so you know it's one thing to talk  about being rejected because you're not  thin enough or not handsome enough or  not tall enough or something you know  okay that may sting it may hurt your  feelings but it's kind of shallow and  limited  but being judged for  your intellectual properties shall we  say  um that can be much more  much much more hard to cope with  anyway so we have a few different  replies to this uh within my patreon  group but one of them from a guy named  joel who's had a few messages back and  forth military and a joel  seems to be a very young man i don't  know i'm guessing he's 17 or 18 years  old some of them  anyway joel says quote i think you're  just talking about people who are  gullible  from my perspective these aren't  intellectuals now this is the  interesting thing to me the moment  i've laid eyes on this  question or comment remember with the  audience that's the first thing i  thought is that the people you're  talking about  are not intellectuals this is one of the  reasons i want to do this live stream  now you know  on what basis so i've already read you  it's a very brief  statement he says well this begs the  question of why so many intellectuals  live lonely miserable existence to end  in suicide or death by alcoholism  i don't regard people who drink alcohol  as intellectuals like i know that may  sound ridiculous to many of you but if  you know what i mean by an intellectual  it totally excludes people drinking  alcohol now i'll give you another  example that comes closer to my heart  you guys may know i have some admiration  for the books written by george rr  martin all right so george r martin most  famously wrote a book called game of  thrones that was made into a tv show  he's been an author of many things over  many years  oh so frida freda's one step ahead frida  just says or the ones that watch  football  yeah  well you get a really strong sense that  george rr martin is  not  an intellectual not by my standards at  least  from the fact that he has a lifelong  football watching habit if you go to his  blog um you will find that  every second or third entry on his blog  he's talking about what happened in this  week's game what happened in one  football game or another he's poured a  huge number of hours into watching  football his entire life now i also  don't know how much or how little  alcohol george r martin consumes i just  i just don't know  um  but you know i did  i listened to many of his books and  short stories as uh audiobooks as work  on tape that was back when i was lifting  weights in uh couldn't make china i was  at the gym for long hours and i was i  was listening to his work  well something else that is really  striking is how little progress he's  made intellectually he had just a few  themes a few things he was concerned  about a few issues he was thinking about  in the 1970s  and then in the 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s  there's there's very little progress now  again i'm not even saying this is um  something that intellectuals strive  or strive to accomplish i think if  you're an intellectual and you're living  a life of the mind and you're not an  alcoholic you're not getting drunk three  days a week  you're not watching football three days  a week it's just inevitable that even if  you have no redeeming qualities  whatsoever you're making progress and  you really have different concerns and  different interests in life you know i'm  i'm saying to you  completely seriously if george rr martin  lived like an intellectual there's no  way  his his works from the 1970s would have  so much in common with things he's  written in the 1990s or 2000s he would  have again without making any particular  effort  without wanting to change you know uh  you'd change now look i have a great  guinea pig here in the room with me  right now but i mean i myself i'm a  guinea pig with this it's amazing to me  how much i've changed in the last four  years how much i've learned how much  i mean you know i can ask melissa about  that like  you know i mean any of the books you've  been reading in the last four years  i i mean you have not picked up a single  book with the thought this is going to  make me a better person or this is going  to make me a different person none of  this is read with a sort of self-help  motivation or in you're not seeking out  some kind of personal transformation  but you know you've changed you you  learn new things  like in sir i've said this before on the  channel you might have heard me say this  before but think about the meaning of  the word  perspective you know  the difference between seeing something  that's close up to you as enormous and  understanding its true size its true  significance in perspective seeing  things  in perspective i mean even if you don't  want to change  you know you you change there's an  example on the front page of the new  york times  the sunday so yesterday's copy of the  new york times the front page story is  about the us military improperly  uh dropping a bomb that killed 50 to 70  civilians civilians apparently this is  in the war against isis in syria  okay they drop so like i'm not doubting  the basic premise of this story there's  a drone strike  something was wrong or stupid or  misguided about this drone strike it's  not known it's not known who pulled the  trigger or who decided to carry this  drum strike and they killed 50 to 70  civilians  in  isis territory  if i had read that story when i was 16  years old right i would not see it in  perspective  you know that's not like a simple  judgment of right or wrong but you know  oh yeah you know what like you know  villages get burned down women and  children get massacred in war and  you know you can gain a sense of  perspective by reading about the history  of the napoleonic wars just recently  i've been reading a lot about the  american revolutionary war which many  people today are strangely ignorant of  you know all these all these  celebrations of american independence  what actually happened in that war what  was happening political time you know  you  gain perspective  you know i just say like  things great and small in my life like  that really make me make me aware of  these things and you know i i just say i  don't think that is moral relativism i  don't think it's going from being a  morally judgmental person to being a  non-judgmental person or anything of the  other kind  but um  you know sort of any given topic how do  you think about  democracy and how do you think about war  how do you think about peace these  things they when you're really learning  when you're really engaged in life the  mind when you're really engaged in  research of any kind for any purpose you  know you you gain perspective  um i was sorry this is just this is way  off topic  but just to give an example where i've  become more judgmental not less  you know because some of you will have  heard that example like okay well  back when you were 17 you were naive and  you would have thought this was a  terrible crime against humanity to drop  a bomb that kills 50 to 70 people  and now you've you've loosened up  because you've gotten used to uh the  stakes of war kind of thing  okay well look you know what the more i  know  about gambling  the more judgmental i am i have no  tolerance for it i have no you know  does you say it doesn't mean i'm more  accepting again like the more i know  about drug addiction the less tolerant i  am you know the more i really you know  believe in very very harsh forms of  coercion  to eliminate and punish you know drug  addiction the more i know even about  prescription drugs prescription drug  addiction and you know mind-altering  drugs that are sold as antidepressants  and so forth  so-called psychiatric medicines  most of which have been debunked and  proven to have really terrible side  effects and either absolutely no benefit  or an incredibly trivial benefit  relative to these these side effects you  know so just say it's not the case that  as you grow when you gain perspective  that everything recedes toward the  horizon everything seems smaller and  seems less important some things may  seem  more important some things you may be  more  judgmental of but anyway it's just fine  i've so just say this is not the only uh  concern in my mind it's not the only the  only thing on my plate  um i have this conversation i'm going to  return to here on my patreon i have the  fact that in the last week we've seen  the rise and fall of extinction  rebellion and their grand ploy to change  the history of the world uh at glasgow  when you know what what is to be done  about  um  you know global warming uh came to the  fore it was briefly within the british  isles they didn't have to fly away and  imagine if imagine if that conference  had taken place in vietnam  you know imagine that had been hanoi or  ho chi minh city like what would they  have been able to do and they would be  in a much less comfortable prison for a  much longer time  you know okay well conveniently this was  in glasgow scotland so  right in their homeland right in their  crosshairs and we got to see just how  little was accomplished by their their  form of so-called uh peaceful protests  so we've we've just lived through that  you know and i'd say to something else  that's on my mind now more than ever  related to both of these former so this  is the third category both the two  categories i've just mentioned it's just  the reality of the fake vegans among us  the fake vegans who lead the movement  the fake vegans who make money off of  the movement the fake vegans who are  very often the most prominent people  whether it's on youtube or in in terms  of the organization of the movement  um  you guys sorry some of you may have  already seen this some of you will not i  just posted to my blog this image it's  it's very simply a quotation from george  mambio george promo one of the most  powerful and influential people of the  last century to be the press it's  ridiculous i mean  you know  who has been more powerful and  influential if you look at the whole  century i mean you know george w bush  was only in power for eight years but  george mavio has had this uh bully  pulpit of his for a much much longer  time and it's not over yet so if you  guys haven't seen this quotation before  you can uh you can click on the link  i've just put in the in the comment  section  um so the the title of this article is  quote  i've converted to veganism to reduce my  impact on the living world close quote  now  he said he chose to use the term  converted to veganism he didn't say you  know i've been trying to cut down on my  meat consent you know i've been trying  to adopt a more moderate you know  no he says converted to veganism he  doesn't even say he's trying to adjust  his diet to be more vegan no it's an  ideological phrasing quote i have  converted to veganism close quote and  now i've just given you in this  illustration jumping ahead to what from  myself is the crucial paragraph of this  article because there is a lot of  meandering [ __ ] about the  relationship of ecology to veganism if  you read the thing as a whole  [Laughter]  quote since then i have cut almost all  animal products from my diet  period  i'm not religious about it period now  already there close quote over there  if you're not religious about it maybe  you shouldn't have used the phrasing  i've converted to vegan so i'll continue  here quote  if i'm at a friend's house i might  revert to vegetarianism  if i'm away from home i will take a drop  of milk in my tea  about once a fortnight i have an egg for  my breath  [Music]  [Laughter]  sorry close question this isn't the end  of the quote believe it or not oh well  gee it doesn't sound like you've  converted to veganism no it sounds like  you eat  milk and eggs and meat as this goes on  whenever it's convenient for you oh and  i'm sorry so so about once every two  weeks you have an egg for breakfast so  do you go to the grocery store and buy  one egg  so you go to the butcher and say yes i  like to buy one egg  or  do you buy 12 eggs in a case  that sit in your fridge  all the time i don't believe you homeboy  i think your household is buying and  consuming a dozen eggs a week because  eggs don't last very long i don't think  you buy one egg once every two weeks and  if you did  you would still not be vegan it's just  ridiculous oh sorry just uh continue  here um  so quote about once a fortnight i have  an egg for my breakfast comma perhaps  once a month  a fish i catch  about once a month he eats a fish that  he catches and kills himself  uh continuing the quotation or a herring  or some anchovies and now he he he adds  in parentheses  if you eat fish  take them from the bottom of the food  chain close parentheses period  yes that obviously is the moral that  vegans would insist on here yes um you  know as if it's it's fine to eat animals  as long as they're closer to the bottom  of the food chain that would be a very  different philosophy wouldn't it  may be an interesting one but no that's  that's not veganism i continue the  quotation here quote perhaps three or  four times a year on special occasions i  will eat farmed meat  colon  partly out of greed partly because i  don't want to be even more of a specter  at the feast than i am already  close quote  so again  he said he converted to veganism  in reality he eats meat whenever it is  convenient for him like oh how much more  often could you possibly eat meat given  your conviction that you're saving the  planet this is supposedly an ecological  vegan you don't have the conviction you  don't want to be a specter so like let's  just say i don't know which i don't know  which uh you know  event he's alluding to which which  religious occasion or what have you he's  living here but he says he doesn't want  to be a specter at the event oh okay so  you don't want to um  you don't want to slightly inconvenience  your father-in-law  is that what it is you go over to your  father-in-law's house  to celebrate whatever god forsaken  holiday you you celebrate right oh well  you know what you could do like even  here in victoria there's a there's a  vegan restaurant it's not great it's  really not but you know there's a vegan  chinese restaurant here if you've if  you've really been watching my youtube  channel for a long time you've seen my  review of that chinese restaurant for  you know what you know okay i never  they don't recognize me when i go to  that restaurant so i guess they don't  they don't watch my youtube channel they  don't know how to review them oh okay  well if i got to go eat with my  father-in-law then i don't want to  impose on him to make vegan food i can  go to that chinese restaurant i can get  take out vegan food and i can bring that  to the dinner to the event you know i  can i can bring my own  food  why  because it matters  like i'm sorry but like you know now  look you know in terms of how i feel  about this this is what i think about  this there are the conclusions i can't  do  [Music]  why is it  that the very people who have gotten  rich and famous  out of veganism and out of ecology more  broadly are the people who lack  you know the level of commitment the  level of self-discipline to actually  live the lifestyle you know sorry who  who has made more money out of veganism  than george monbio who has gotten more  fame  veganism than the george mobile you know  and in his case it's veganism and  ecology you know what i'm saying it's  not it's not just just one thing and  it's the whole his whole act even in  that one article and in youtube videos  he's uploaded this month and so on it's  very much about how veganism and ecology  are are linked to one another okay so as  a simple matter of principles a simple  matter of self-discipline and look guys  you know especially in the current  context there's now november of 2021  nothing else  is  veganism like this is going to sound  weird  george mumbio he's kind of an old ugly  guy  how old is  george monbio i could i could have asked  my robot friend here  uh so he's 58 okay he's 58 years old  he's not the best looking guy imagine if  he had written the same article  saying that he absolutely never sleeps  with prostitutes  and let's say the title isn't that he's  decided to never sleep with prostitutes  it could even be he's converted to  anti-prostitutism or he's converted to  catholicism  maybe a poor choice  but so he's made an ideological  commitment that he's never going to  sleep with prostitutes uh  but he does maybe three or four times a  year  you know but he says but you know about  three or four times a year  he does  you know okay it's kind of weird it's  kind of [ __ ] up  i would have more sympathy for that than  what he's saying here and i'd be able to  look at that and be like well you know  this is an ugly older guy who's you know  down on his luck or something you know  whatever this is attitude this you know  he's he's written this article honestly  saying that he's morally opposed to  prostitution but he nevertheless is a  client or engages in it three or four  times a year like i know he's gonna say  word but like there's a there's a kind  of nobility in that there's a kind of  just the vulnerability of being willing  to say hey this is something morally  wrong and i'm going to admit that i do  it i'm going to write about it honestly  there's there's a weird kind of nobility  in that you know of saying like look  this is something i disapprove of and i  do anyway well you know my point here is  now now again sorry you know my point  here is not that i would applaud him for  sleeping with prostitutes  nothing else is veganism you know i mean  nothing else has this moral significance  for the question of who you are what  kind of person you want to be obviously  for the animals themselves that are born  and raised in captivity and tortured to  death for your momentary delectation  the nutritional value is nil or it's  negative you know et cetera et cetera  you guys know that the whole side of it  but especially george pardon me george  mumbio is the most famous  ecologist of his generation he is the  most famous and the most powerful and he  did nothing to earn it he was just  selected to be the science writer for  this incredibly powerful newspaper  uniquely powerful newspaper um in  england and then ever since then he sat  on his throne and that is what he  continues to do and he's he's appeared  numerous times on the youtube channel of  extinction rebellion and he has  apparently participated in a protest and  been arrested at least once for  extinction  now so you're willing to you're  allegedly willing to go to jail for your  convictions allegedly you know this is  also a kind of weird pantomime farce  um none of these people really believe  they're gonna do hard time you know in  jail  they all assume that you know the uh the  system supports them and so on and so  forth but someone this cannot even  maintain uh can cannot simply be 100 but  it cannot actually be vegan cannot live  up to the headline of his own article  quote i've converted to veganism to  reduce my impact on the living world now  look um sorry i'm coming back to column  one and column two here talking about  what it means to be an intellectual and  so on  if you guys have a second hit the hit  the thumbs up button it's great i have  30 people in the audience and i do  appreciate that i've looked at some  other much more famous youtubers live  streams and they actually do not get as  many people on the island as i do or  some of them they have they have  an audience a thousand times larger than  mine but they only have twice as many  people in the audience as i do with this  kind of thing  so i do appreciate people people showing  up and again you know of a sense of what  this conversation is about and if you  want to go and send an invitation to  some friendy or is it something you  think might actually benefit from from  joining in  you know  the other side of it is this  um  aaron  janus went crazy  burnt out still vegan so far as i know  lives 100 vegan lifestyle hundreds of  you know she has she has a  self-discipline  to maintain a vegan diet  but nothing else  you know james aspie  went crazy  burnt out  still has the self this one  to maintain a vegan diet doesn't have  the self-discipline to do anything else  it's bizarre now some of you may vaguely  recall  the legend of james aspie's only fans  check it out today it's gone he's  deleted it i mean he went off the deep  end  he deleted a large part of his social  media presence and he stopped uploading  youtube he stopped doing  uh  much of anything now  yeah i mean you know how  what does it take out of you to maintain  and only fans check his patreon people  are still paying him money on patreon uh  he has not updated or posted to patreon  since 2018.  when i go to the front page of my  patreon not logged in as myself when i  go in as a as a stranger it tells me  that i upload more than 10 times a week  that i post something to patreon and  believe it i'm posting all kinds of  stuff including some videos that aren't  posted publicly but also just  graphics images commentary uh text i'm  posting all kinds of things  you used to do podcasts but anyway  whatever podcast podcast wrote a stop  this is this is 2001 and i post uh post  icons thanks to my to my patreon i talk  to my my followers so that one dollar  that one dollar a month you know okay so  again these are some of the people  who've made the most money  out of the movement and i'm i'm drawing  attention to two types they're the  people who have gotten all this money  and fame of the movement and they don't  even have the self-discipline to be  vegan and there are people  who got the money and fame out of the  movement  but that seems to be all the  self-discipline they've got and  otherwise they've cracked up and falled  apart and you can say they went crazy or  to some extent they always were crazy  you know maybe we'll maybe we'll never  know right like maybe we'll never know  just how crazy they were aside from  these other these other factors babe can  you turn that lamp off oh yes thanks  um  you know so look i don't have to keep  giving examples of this okay  henia mania  again of all the people there was a time  when i said openly she was not only the  most successful vegan activist of that  era but one of the most successful of  all time who's ever done it just but  with the amount of money and fame she  got from making very very little effort  on her part the rewards she got were  immense now again to my knowledge she  still is on a vegan diet but she's lost  the self-discipline and direction to do  anything else with her life  so you know  [Applause]  you know another very strange one some  some of you will remember and some of  you won't  a bite-sized vegan she had so much  support so much it's just money pouring  and look um  what i'm about to say  has nothing to do with jealousy like  many of my viewers are also vegan  activists some of you guys may feel  jealous when you look at some of these  people and  kind of so what i don't it's a feeling i  mean it is what it is some of you may  look at  a bite-sized vegan emily and you may  think wow if you had had that kind of  support if you had that kind of public  interest here's what you would have done  with it some of you may look at aaron  janus  and think wow if you'd ever had that  kind of public interest public support  if you'd ever had this here's what you  would have done with it james asby you  know it's ridiculous  [Laughter]  what talent did that guy ever have you  know it's ridiculous but you know  starting with the mainstream media and a  few individual people like freely there  was this conspiracy to make him into a  celebrity and a massively reward the  very small efforts he made some of you  may look at that and and feel jealous  and think that you would have done  something so much more meaningful or  impactful or you you were just still  there you'd do a better job if you were  uh adventitiously put into james asking  position if you'd had you know  but  the point i want to make here has  nothing to do with jealousy and has  nothing to do with those subjective  feelings or those aspirations to make  better use of  the opportunities or resources that  exist with people  my point is instead emphasize that those  resources are incredibly finite  and the fact that one person has them  means that nobody else has them so the  fact that  dr greger  has a sinking budget of over one million  dollars a year in donations coming in so  i've made videos in the past talking  about the actual numbers i'm not going  to make a new video now and going  through his budget again you can get the  budget you can get the numbers you can  look at how much is a huge amount of  money okay  there is somebody else  who is not getting that million dollars  and i can point to the audience right  now and say it's you  the millions of dollars  plural that go into peta people with the  ethical treatment of animals it doesn't  matter if you feel jealous about it or  you feel positive it really doesn't  matter how you feel  the fact that that money is given to  peta the fact that opportunity is  created there for them at that time this  unique way means that it doesn't exist  for you and you and you there's some  other possibility that's be there's  another door that's being closed that  this door can be can be open now i'm  just going to put that in human scale  with with a few other remarks you know  when i was involved in buddhist studies  i really recognized this because i knew  about buddhist studies globally so this  is research and academic teaching  related buddhism which is supposedly  something very different from the  religion of buddhism in reality they are  inextricably intertwined  [Music]  you know  you could look at the whole island of  great britain  and there would only be so many seats so  many chairs for professors in buddhism  and then you could look at all of europe  and then you could look at all of the  world like including hong kong and  thailand and sri lanka it's like  globally  there are only so many positions there  are only so many seats  and the fact that this seat like one  particular example the fact that it was  given to this crackpot to this idiot  to this numbskull who's going to  squander the opportunity  that has unbelievable implications for  the whole field like chair by chair  seat by seat and when you look around  the world and you know those guys live a  long time they don't retire they don't  give up the seat and pass it on to  someone else after four years and there  are no elections and there are no  explanations for why one guy got that  opportunity and not another  the seats you hear nothing from so i'll  say further some of those seats some of  those professorships there's a big  scandal you know something that gets  into so there's one i talked about in a  recent youtube video one of these guys  he was a professor of buddhism in  denmark  and he became a neo-nazi and got  involved in holocaust denial and i was  told by an eyewitness he also had nazi  tattoos on his body and he was asked to  resign after he resigned he was not  replaced by a better man they completely  shut down the department like the seat  cease to exist this is another thing  that happens so that got into the  newspapers that got talked about oh  there's a professor of buddhism was a  bit of a crazy nazi you know  um so when you say some of these people  are extenders okay so that people hear  about and that they might be able to  mentate that this is a waste this is a  loss of opportunity there's a finite  amount of opportunity out there and some  of it was squandered by this guy  what's harder to see is that there are  all these chairs all these positions all  these opportunities each one equating to  a million dollars or something  large amounts of money involved with  with high level academia you know  and the ones you hear  nothing back from  like oh yeah yeah i haven't really heard  anything about buddhist studies at the  university of toronto for a few years  whatever it's just something that there  has been no controversy there has been  no scandal but there also haven't been  any great accomplishments right there  hasn't been you know it's nothing has  been done positively with uh with that  opportunity okay that is actually the  greater tragedy and like if you care  about buddhism as a religion that  completely condemns and ruins the the  future of buddhism that's the death of  your religion if you care about academia  it condemns and ruins the future of the  university or of the discipline and by  the way you could repeat this what i've  just said about buddhist studies you  could say that's also about a field like  say anthropology you know anthropology  but there isn't a lot of money coming in  each seat each professorship really  matters for the future of anthropology  not just for the future of your own  students you know but for for everyone  else as well  so look you know um  i had a conflict here i believe this is  right on topic i had a conflict here  with a guy named uh jordan riker and i  made several videos  talking about it  now it's not merely symbolic or  conceptual to say so we're now at about  eight years  all right it's not it's like seven and a  half years  okay we'll say seven years in a second  i can say that in the last seven years  he excluded me from  every possible vegan forum every  possible vegan activist organization i  could have been  involved with here in the city of  victoria and in the adjacent city of  vancouver now that includes just like  having me removed from a facebook group  i'm not allowed to join the facebook  group i'm not allowed to attend the  event the event is kept secret from me  even though i signed the piece of paper  creating the organization that hosted  the event like like the degree of kind  of backstabbing and skullduggery and so  on where he was smiling to my face at  one point he was he's not anymore you  know  um  you know this is one guy who was the  self-appointed hitler  of veganism in victoria british columbia  canada that's what he is he's a petty  tyrant he's a little hitler okay now in  this case it's not just  symbolic or it's not just an economic  argument in the same sense that look one  million dollars being given to wayne  syong and one million dollars being  given to peta and one million dollars  being given to uh  dr greger how many millions of dollars  do you think we've got here guys like  you think there's infinite opportunity  for a movement as unpopular as ours okay  there is a real sense in which that  hurts me and hurts all of you in the  audience because i'm not i'm not here to  gas you up i see we got lydia in the  audience i see we got frida in the  audience okay  lydia  you are smarter than dr greger  right you like  all the people i know in this audience  you're all smarter than dr greger you're  all smarter than durianrider you're all  smarter than freelee you're all smarter  than jordan reichert you know you're all  really you guys all have the potential  to make more of an important difference  for the future of this movement and thus  for the future of of planet earth  then aaron janus oh oh that's really  beautiful who who in this audience put  your hands up if you genuinely think  you're stupider than james aspie put  your hands up in the audience tell me  who you are if you think you're so  stupid that the best way you can make a  difference in the world and for the  future of veganism is to give your money  to james aspie and let him talk for you  let him do just like well look you know  like look when i go to the hospital i  don't tell the doctors how to do the job  i don't tell the surgeon how to do open  chest surgery by the same token you know  i've just got to trust james aspie i'm  just going to say look man you're the  dude you're the dude with a scalpel in  your hand it's on you you're like you  know does anyone feel that way does  anyone feel they're so dumb they just  have to hand over their money to james  aspie and and leave him in charge of the  movement or let him speak for you let  him speak on your behalf let him  actually craft i don't believe it like i  don't believe i have a single viewer  today and whatever over time this video  may get  a thousand views or whatever it gets i  don't believe any of you really think  you're you're that stupid  um  with someone like jordan reichert  it's much more direct because he's  actually preventing me from attending  vegan events preventing me from speaking  preventing me from even being a member  of the facebook group and look  the fact that  uh  aaron janus got that money and not you  right  you probably weren't asking probably  because we're not doing fundraising you  weren't competing okay it matters in  this more indirect sense right  in this city  how many talented hard-working brilliant  vegans do you think we've got okay so in  victoria canada  i think i'm the most famous vegan in  this city i don't i can't even i don't  have a lot of competition  who's the guy across the street levi oh  yeah yeah okay  across the street from me there's a guy  named levi he's got his own youtube  she's terrible i don't want to show them  it's a terrible youtube channel there's  one other vegan youtuber i know of in  this town yeah i'm right he's sick he's  on the vegan spectrum but anyway  guys there's not a lot of competition  here then you know am i the most  talented most brilliant most hardworking  potential leader for veganism in  victoria in victoria and vancouver in  western canada like if we include  toronto and montreal maybe i've got some  competition but there's not a lot in the  whole country in the whole of canada  how many talented ambitious people are  there you can work with in veganism well  guess what because of this one [ __ ]  jordan reichert because of one  self-appointed petty tyrant  little hitler right  the other vegans who were here in  victoria they never met me they never  got the chance to work with me and the  irony is i'm not a little tyrant i  wouldn't have tried to lead and control  them in that way i probably just engaged  them in discussions and would have  contributed in that way i probably would  have played a more socratic role frankly  rather than being this this kind of uh  this kind of leader but  you know what whatever they could have  accomplished in real life or on the  internet like politically  philosophically in terms of publications  whatever kinds of events right there's  no comparison between in in seven years  what they could have done with me  compared to what they would have done  without me the most recent video that  jordan reichert uploaded had 17 views  one  seven  17 news if you know anything about how  youtube works especially with a long  format video  17 views is zero it doesn't rep it  doesn't indicate that there are actually  17 people interested in your work um  it doesn't mean you have 17 actually  interesting viewers and that guy has had  institutional support from absolutely  everybody he's had organized political  party support he's had donations he's  had all this money and effort by them  stuff i've never had in any stage of my  career you know okay i did do a  fundraiser once for a court case with  durianrider not not the same thing i'm  not supported by a political party in  canada i'm not supported by their  activists not supported by groups like  direct action everywhere and uh what's  it called the save movement and all  these things he's connected to and  supported by all of these other all  these other institutions and guess what  he's a [ __ ] idiot  everything he has to say is boring and  his ideas about in his approach to vegan  activism is completely counterproductive  and stupid and wrong  and to quote my favorite rapper 50 cent  you've been hustling a long time and you  ain't got nothing you know it's just  seven years i know he's been doing it  for 15 years now he's been in this game  a long time but like dude  i see what you've accomplished in the  last seven years  and it is [ __ ] nothing you know so  sorry this is my point sometimes we're  talking about this more indirect form of  competition where it's like look there's  only so much oxygen there's only so much  money there are only so many seats in  the universities and so on and so forth  and sometimes you're talking about  really direct competition where one  person is is snuffing out another so for  me this is the same uh  this is the same problem i opened the  video talking about for me these are  three different columns of talking about  exact same problem which is whether or  not any of these people are real are  real intellectuals  um i've got a comment from the audience  here quote i'm afraid of going to a  vegan meetup and getting disappointed  yeah  and you know i think there are really  kind of only two  uh two attitudes you can you can take  towards that  i think you decide to go to the meetup  and and get disappointed you know  because it's worth it because there's  something important you know for you to  learn in being disappointed you know  um  [Laughter]  you know what i'm wrong there's only one  possibility that's it  there is  you know um the value of knowing has to  be kind of greater than than not knowing  and i think that's i think that's all i  can say about that but yeah if you go  you're going to be disappointed if you  go to the vegan events you're going to  know exactly what kind of loser you've  got to work with and if you don't go  you're never going to know it's going to  be a matter of speculation right  now look i mean sorry to bring that back  to buddhist studies my experience with  buddhism really briefly  um  if i had just  started out with the attitude that all  the people in this field are idiots and  not worth talking to that would be one  thing  but going out and meeting those people  with an open heart and open mind again  and again and again and reading their  work and learning about their background  and learning what's going on in the  field that puts me in a very very  different position where it's like okay  i really know what i'm missing i know  who these people are i know what's  possible and what's impossible and in  buddhist studies and with time i really  learned how the whole  university system works now it's it's  heartbreaking because it was all bad  news but you know  jesus give you an example margaret cohn  i had email with margaret cohen before i  met her face to face  um if i hadn't met her face to face  nobody could have convinced me  how insane and how stupid  margaret cohen is you know what i mean  like nobody doesn't matter if someone  had told me i would have never  you know what i mean i never could have  believed it so margaret cohen's a career  academic connected to uh uh buddhist  studies you know i could go on and on  it's a different story in each case  they're not all insane you know in the  same way and it wasn't always something  i figured out based on meeting the face  to face i remember one professor he's  now a professor of buddhism at king's  college london a very prestigious  position  and you know when i met him face to face  i could tell he really did not know his  stuff  a lot of things having to do with the  actual texts what the additions are and  the differences are between them  um like how the  how you do buddhist studies 101  basically that stuff any anyway anyone  with a phd should know that any frankly  anyone with a ba should know that but  whatever um so he was strangely ignorant  to me but later i looked around at um an  obscure publication in england i used to  read all the  buddhist studies locations and i found  articles and comments from him showing  what a culti what a true believer he was  in buddhism before he learned to cover  it up and present himself in a more  academically respectable way okay so  you're saying different people are crazy  in different ways uh when i you know and  then you find out nothing's possible  that you can't work with anybody and you  know i quit the buddhist studies field  basically because i didn't like the  company it's like well i don't want to  work with any of these people and i'm  not going to do this at all if i have to  work completely alone there was a time  when i came back from  china to canada  and i had a list of people i was  expecting to work with when i got to  canada and i even bought gifts for some  of them  and i wanted to believe the best about  all these people that included aaron  janus you know included a bunch of vegan  activists i knew and you know you have  the attitude of hey you got lemons make  lemonade maybe there's some things wrong  with aaron janus but you know let's  let's try to do something positive  for the animals for the future of planet  earth for all these reasons for all  these lofty reasons that motivate us to  be involved in vegan activism in the in  the first place okay like you know  and aaron had written to us at that time  she said directly to us that she wanted  to do uh collab videos with both me and  melissa that she thought of collab video  she wanted before  for youtube with my with my girlfriend  melissa  um anyway yeah i i came back and i had a  list of people i was expecting to meet  and and do something with you know for  for the movement and not a single one of  them ever met me and not a single one of  them ever ever did anything and  basically all of those people have have  gone insane um  or they were insane all along  and now it just shows a little bit more  blatantly i mean like with someone like  richard with vegan gains can anyone say  he went crazy or is it just that he was  crazy all along and he had different  ways of uh coping with it or or  concealing it  um  all right so i am seeing your your  questions in the audience as they as  they come in um  you know look i gotta say  being wrong is something that happens to  people  but if you're an intellectual you  learn from those mistakes because being  intellectual is about learning all the  time  you know uh someone like jordan reichert  he's not intellectual  he's also an idiot but let's you know  someone like jordan reichert at an early  stage he got committed to  opposing  horse-drawn carriages as his main form  of vegan activists now from the first  time i met him i was setting up these  reasons why this is like the absolute  worst and weakest approach to vegan  activism horse drawing  as you know there can make a list of uh  i don't know what do you want to base  your campaign around in terms of being  active  including that he was going he was  trying to get elected the government's  going for mass support some that's  popular with the masses talk about an  issue that matters to to a lot of people  you know the horses that draw the  carriages here are treated better  than pet dogs and pet cats and he's not  anti-pet he's not against domestication  of pets you know who among other things  have their testicles chopped off and so  on and so forth you know okay so you  have a horse that lives on a field and  then for a couple hours a day it pulls a  carriage you know and you're saying this  is terrible animal abuse oh you know  you're making yourself look ridiculous  you may be making veganism look  ridiculous too to a certain extent what  we know meanwhile  you know here we're even killing whales  and stuff and we're killing all kinds of  large  large animals but you know  look you know  regardless let's say hypothetically  seven years ago he decided to make  horse-drawn carriages the center of his  political campaign for veganism  and what if it worked what if it was a  great success what if my analysis was  wrong what if you know he really struck  a nerve with the public  and everyone supported this campaign oh  god the other thing he was committed to  was  sabotaging  the traps  for  a deer  so you have periodically a deer problem  there are too many deer downtown in the  middle of the city and they block  traffic oh so he's morally opposed to  trapping the deal  every everyone else who lives in the  city vegan or not they're aware having  deer in traffic is this this big problem  they got to cope with one way or the  other just like you're picking the most  marginal most unpopular issues possible  wait what if i were wrong what if he  tapped this huge groundswell of public  support and interest has swept him to a  position of political power and it was a  great success well of course it failed  that's not what happened of course he  failed and failed and failed and failed  um despite getting interviewed on the  mate by the mainstream press despite  getting a certain level of notoriety and  support from these vegan organizations  which again i have never had i have  never had  the save movement or anyone else  supporting what i'm doing i've never had  a political party behind me i've never  had donations behind me as i've said for  any of this stuff i'm just not an idiot  but you know  all of the support i have is due to my  being not an idiot which i appreciate  you know  uh  okay well if you're an intellectual any  kind of intellectual if you're a real  intellectual  is it even gonna be one year or two  years that you're committed to those  tactics before you're really reflecting  on it analyzing it learning from the  experience and you're doing something  else like an intellectual in his  position even if they had made that  mistake of committing to two of the most  unpopular counterproductive things to  possibly protest they committed to  horse-drawn carriages and sabotaging  deer traps for a deer that have come  into the downtown part of the city and  you can imagine here the deer tear apart  people's garbage and they tear apart  people's lawns and they run in traffic  so the public generally is much less  sympathetic the non-vegan public is not  terribly sympathetic on the deer issue  they're a nuisance they they want to get  rid of and they're quite ready to kill  them or shoot them or have the city  authorities do so you know um  you know don't you think you can learn  from that don't you think you can adapt  now i said right at the start of this  video even though i personally have some  level of appreciation for the writing of  georgia r martin  it's the same thing  right if george rr martin were a real  intellectual and you were not watching  sports on tv you were not watching  american pro football and we're not  drinking alcohol it's just not possible  that he's stuck on the same sort of  narrow selection of themes and the same  theses about those themes  from the 1970s through to the 2020s it's  not possible you know intellectuals are  people who learn and that includes you  know uh learning from your own mistakes  now  in a weird subtle way i think this  applies to james aspy  i think it applies to all these other  people i think it applies to george  monbio oh yeah the other the other big  name went crazy and disappeared how  about gary yourofsky you know  one aspect of being an intellectual  is that you don't make the same mistakes  again and again even if whether you made  the decision as a young person or a  middle-aged person at some point you  committed to one mode of activism one  approach to politics whatever it is and  then you know  lydia is asking if this is pre-recorded  lydia i showed you oh just a few minutes  ago what do you mean i  think i haven't i'm not seeing the not  seeing the comments as they come in  [Laughter]  all right so i'm going to return to this  um  this comment i had on on  patreon now so joel writes in saying  quote i think you're just talking about  people who are gullible from my  perspective these aren't intellectuals  again that's the part of this comment i  really relate to  and then his next  example he goes on to is  jordan peterson  and he says look people call jordan  peterson an intellectual but look at  what he says about nazi ideology  now i don't need to go into this at  great depth and i don't even think  that's the best example  within jordan peterson's extant works  okay  you know if you're an intellectual you  challenge your own assumptions you  challenge other people's assumptions you  learn you do research you change you  adopt new  attitudes and perspectives what jordan  peterson has to say about  nazism and adolf hitler is in very large  part based on one book  called hitler's table talk now that book  at one time was a bestseller in english  it's still a huge number of copies but  today it's largely forgotten it's not  really a famous book today the way it  once was i do not think you will see it  for sale  uh in an airport waiting room but there  was a time when it was it was that big a  hit it was it was a big hit book okay  that book  has been completely debunked  it has been proven  to be an intentionally written fraud an  intentionally created fraud okay and a  fraud created with very specific  uh political objectives by the by the  creators of the hoax right it's that's  now an established fact  does jordan peterson's perspective on  the nazis change no  there's no there's no change  there's no progress there's no new  perspective there's no new approach you  know does his perspective on any other  related issue christianity  uh democracy you know these things are  all tied up his idea of  kind of hierarchy in society all these  things are tied up to what he has to say  it's really incoherent [ __ ] he has  to say about the nazis you know when you  know okay  i'm not saying this to you in a moral  sense what i'm saying to you you have to  change i'm not saying you would have to  make an effort to change if you are an  intellectual you will change it will be  effortless you're changing all the time  like  what i think about ancient athens  in the last four years has changed back  when i was with my ex-wife whatever more  than 10 years ago  i thought i already knew everything i  had to know about ancient athens i  wasn't on an ego trip about it but i was  like no no you know i've done a certain  amount of reading and i just don't have  any reason to do any more reading of  that i was working on buddhism and all  these other things working on the kree  and the ojibwe all kinds of things that  nerves me that time i was married to an  anthropologist reading anthropology and  you know as always caring about politics  and history there were all kinds of  things i wanted to read i didn't think i  was going to return to the study of  ancient rome and ancient athens well  guess what i changed you know i've and  i've partly i've discovered books i  didn't even know existed and so on and  so forth and i read those books and i  see the problems and the books that  already read and i gained a new  perspective and i've changed now  you know the point is my view about  everything has changed like even even  just within the last five years my views  about the history of the united states  of america the writing the american  constitution has changed my views about  historical figures like benjamin  franklin i mean all kinds of stuff but  you're not that one which i never  thought i'd take an interest in i never  thought my research would would would  bend that way or something you know and  you know i've changed and i'm changing  all the time i'm doing research all the  time and i'm learning all the time and  yes i'm i'm challenging your assumptions  all the time like i try to reach out to  my audience and challenge what you guys  think or what what you uh assume  but uh  you know i'm challenging myself all the  time also  and again without making any particular  effort i'm going to change now tell me  something  jordan peterson  from his own perspective  was hospitalized and nearly died because  of the addictive properties of  prescription psychiatric medication  because these medications that he had  trusted all his life and he had  recommended other people use all his  life and i've seen youtube videos of him  saying that it's not just my imagination  you know he discovered abruptly and  unexpectedly  that these drugs one are addictive that  they have really serious withdrawal  problems and two they have incredibly  serious negative side effects and from  his own perspective he almost died he  was hospitalized and there's a whole  saga surrounding what happened and how  he managed to just barely recover his  health  and or his sanity  okay so  here's the problem  jordan peterson hasn't changed  even if you compare his first book  written before the hospitalization to  his second book he hasn't changed there  is one endnote it's not even a photo  there's an endnote in the second book  that mentions in about two sentences  that it turns out these drugs have  terrible negative side effects and are  addictive and he hadn't realized that  before  he hasn't changed now  his specialization his area of expertise  is not  the history of germany during world war  ii you know he's not a devoted  researcher of 20th century german  fascism or something that just happens  to be a fascination he's had for many  years of his life and is a big part of  his is philosophy so in discovering that  the main book that's the source of his  knowledge and his attitude is analysis  of that discovering that that book is a  hoax is a fraud  that should lead you to change  his career  is in the field of the science of the  mind psychology whatever you want to  call it okay so when you discover that  that has been debunked everything should  change  um the sense in which he's not an  intellectual or the proof positive what  really matters here it's not  have you read this particular book or  have you read these 10 books or have you  read 100 books or are you reading new  books all the time  there's a really weird sense in which  someone could theoretically be  illiterate and be a real intellectual  they'd have to listen to a lot of books  on tape that have to rely a lot on you  know conversations i'm saying here that  the real most important sign of being an  intellectual like the litmus test the  evidence you have someone is  intellectual is that they can change  that they profoundly change and i think  they're changing all the time without  without making any particular effort to  do so now i got to tell you something  look at durian riders youtube channel he  ain't changed look at freelee's youtube  channel he ain't changed look at me you  know i'm sorry to say it but even  somebody like the leader of pcrm uh  what's his name dr uh dr bernard right  yeah dr bernard the head of pcrm he  ain't neil bernard yeah yeah barnard  yeah okay sorry  uh dr neil barnard you know he ain't  he's incapable of of change you know in  this in this way you know so this is you  know i just say this is really  significant i mean this is this is a  significant telling sign about who is  and who is not intellectual and what the  what the consequences are so you know i  say this on a on a large scale and on a  small scale now look i've followed sorry  i've mentioned before uh george monvio i  actually checked with my blog history  when was the last time i mentioned  george monbiot on my blog and it was  2014.  so i have a post here on my blog from  2014 called george monvio a lifetime uh  of excuses for eating meat  um  lydia is saying that she regrets that  isil never comes to her live streams uh  lydia i didn't even know you you had  live streams or a youtube channel or  anything like that i mean if you want to  send me an email if you want to talk to  me on patreon you can but come on  i don't know any i don't know anything  about you aside from what you tell me  and  you don't tell me much so you know come  on uh you know in a sense i've known you  for five years or something but come on  i only know a series of single sentence  comments that you made  um  okay so back in 2014 i wrote quote the  most remarkable thing about george  monbio's saga of alternating between  veganism and embracing meat-eating is  that he has gotten paid to publish his  opinion at every stage  what he has to say isn't any better than  the type of diaristic writing that now  floods the internet for free and really  it isn't any better informed either  quote so now i'm quoting ambio while  researching my book feral i also came to  see extensive livestock rearing as a lot  less benign than i or my colleague had  assumed  the damage done to biodiversity water  catchments and carbon stores by sheep  and cattle grazing in places unsuitable  for arable farming is out of all  proportion to the amount of meat  produced  wasteful and destructive as feeding  grain to livestock is ranching appears  to be even worse  close quote when i continue quoting my  article  so in other words after many years of  research countless articles written on  the subject and several published books  he has come to admit to himself a set of  facts so obvious that they are  consistently discussed even in united  nations agency reports that actively  support the expansion of the meat  industry  i then have a series of bar charts  showing the unbelievably horrible  ecological consequences of the  production and eating of meat  quote these basic facts are so clear  even from a simple visualization of how  animals are fed etc that for the most  part people can only fail to understand  them because they actively prefer to  disregard them and while i can  sympathize with that self-deceptive  tendency i.e we are all we were all  young once  it is surreal to see someone who became  a self-professed expert after more than  a decade of advocacy authorship etc  limping along with this kind of  recognition of the most basic  assumptions so long afterward and for  such shallow reasons as reflecting that  al gore is now vegan  um close quote and i end by just saying  you can lead a horse to water but you  can't make a drink  you know um reflecting on that way so  now look uh that was written in 2014  but you can see the same issue here  coming in he has gotten paid for this he  has become rich and famous and he  continues to be here we are in 2021 and  he's still one of the most  influential people in the world now you  know nobody else gets hired for that  position nobody else gets to be the  science writer at the guardian that's  that's a one once in a lifetime  opportunity that he was given for no  particular reason nobody else is going  to have that particular  again it's more like a professor's seat  or what have you um  you know there is nobody else who's  gonna have that that opportunity it  can't be shared uh it can't be shared it  can only be squandered sadly and george  monbio is now an example of someone  who's squandered it  but you know my light motif here that  i'm coming back to again and again is  um  how is it possible for this guy  in 10 years  from 2004 to 2014.  again he's researching and writing books  i mean he's not just watching sports on  tv i mean maybe he does with his spare  time also i don't know that much about  his his private life you know how is it  possible over 10 years for you to deal  with these facts and these questions  again and again and and you don't change  and now we can look at the gap between  2014 and 2021 and say you know that that  he hasn't changed  so  i'm just reading the rest of this  comment from patreon  yeah so this is something else i  discussed with melissa recently so uh  joel writes  he says you know um  people worship these figures like jordan  peterson who are not real intellectuals  and even when he can prove that what  jordan peterson is saying is wrong or  faulty or misleading um you know people  will just try to come up with the most  generous interpretation possible so they  can keep on supporting jordan peterson  quote  you see the problem is that a lot of  people in this generation are very  gullible and claim that they do research  when they don't  it's not only 17 year olds it's also 40  year olds and beyond  people never talk about the poverty of  the mind but at least this youtube  channel of balocio is  um and he then says himself that he he  wants to have a rich mind and not a poor  mind  and he says he's going to share the  particular video with his friends  because he hopes they can benefit from  it if they if they pay attention to it  um  you know  okay there are things i like about  western civilization  there are things i like about france and  germany and england even  that i cannot find  in japan  and i cannot find in iran or iraq  there are things about you know western  christendom even to put it that way you  know the traditionally christian western  european civilization that i personally  happen to like and i'm an atheist in  case you didn't know i'm a nihilistic  atheist however i think it's really  important to you know  face up to  uh the unique disadvantages of our  culture and it is a culture that's been  shaped by christianity to an  unbelievable extent  why do people pretend to have read books  they haven't read  you know  my honest answer to you is that's  because our whole culture is built on  the bible it's built on people  pretending that they have read and  understood the bible when they haven't  he could give hundreds of examples of  this  but i i've even heard  stories from people who used to be  christians and became atheists talking  about approaching a priest or a pastor  or  would this be a protestant church father  with a very simple question about what a  passage of the bible means and of the  religious leader becoming furious and  even violent and you know kind of  slapping the person and kicking the  church kind of how dare you ask this and  how dare you you know impugn by  authority because the reality was they  were they were covering up for the fact  they really didn't know the text very  well and they didn't understand it like  even if they had kind of seen it before  you know you can point out these  incredibly simple things i used the  example recently of jesus destroying a  tree because it didn't bear fruit out of  season  what an incredibly stupid moral to teach  children oh if you're angry at a tree  because you want to eat apricots you  know whatever the fruit is you want to  eat apples  and this there's no apples on the tree  because it's the middle of winter  because the fruit is out of season well  you should just go ahead and destroy the  tree that's what it says in the new  testament now i i know and anyone who's  really done the research knows there was  a very particular allegorical meaning to  this  the vast majority of christians don't  know that the vast majority of priests  don't know that the vast majority of  church pastors don't know that and so on  and so forth this the if they're being  honest they have to say oh  the text doesn't make any sense or oh  i know i guess i never paid attention  like because in some sense they've read  it and sometimes they've looked it over  their eyes have made contact with the  piece of paper but like we have a whole  civilization and this whole culture  built on to a massive extent to a really  deep extent  not reading  and and pretending you've read things uh  that that you've read so you know  melissa and i were talking about this a  couple of days ago  and um  you know she was talking about  skepticism and when you tell people  something they don't know what they're  unfamiliar with babe why don't you grab  the jfk book it's right behind you the  the assassination science book  you know the attitudes you get in this  culture when you mention  circumstances surrounding the death of  john kennedy former president of the  united states  um okay i'll just just to give you one  some of you know this but some of you  don't know this so  uh the magic bullet theory  the completely impossible theory  supported by the government involves at  its most basic level that when john  kennedy was shot  he was shot from behind and from a  shooter who was far above him from  above and behind from the sixth floor  window of the texas school book  depository  an obscure phrase that's become famous  at least for several generations in  english the texas school book the poster  imagine if they called it something else  uh imagine if they just called it a  warehouse but no it was a school book  depository  um okay  well  you've got a problem even if you want to  believe that because the first bullet  that hits jfk for which we have  innumerable eyewitnesses and we also  have videotape evidence sorry film film  evidence  from the superior film the first bullet  put a hole in the windshield in front of  jfk and then entered his throat which  you can see on filming he clutches his  throat again there were people around  him everyone saw this so that's the  first bullet it's not the last bullet  that strikes them i'm not going to go  through all the bullets here okay so  bullet goes through the windshield you  can see the bullet hole in the  windshield on the film and then it  enters his throat basically dead center  of his throat we have the corpse we have  the x-rays of the corpse okay  that bullet  must have been fired from in front of  the car and it couldn't have been fired  from six stories up  in a school book depository or any other  kind of building it's it's completely  impossible and now if you want to make  up another story to rationalize it which  many people do many people try to claim  that oh when he clutches his throat like  this on the video  that's the bullet exiting  not entering  yes well  there's a very obvious problem with that  which is that if the bullet had entered  at the back of his neck and exited  through the front  it would have destroyed his spine and  the spine and the neck are completely  intact in the corpse and in the x-ray  after he's dead no this is not the only  absurdity or impossibility  among the things would be completely  ridiculous you didn't have to imagine  this bullet descending from the sixth  floor exiting and then going through the  windshield of the car there's so much  wrong with this ridiculous okay but for  that one fact  this this is not the only thing there's  one thing oh okay so here in the realm  of completely rational discourse this is  not a religious question okay so we're  dealing with you know we're dealing with  the extent to which we're talking about  a government cover-up but conspiracy you  know  okay  you know  one of the ways people respond to this  that both melissa and i have seen and  it's so close to what you deal with in  veganism so  one of the ways people respond to this  again and again is oh but if that were  true  somebody would have told me if that were  true i would already know about it  that's it's impossible that that's true  because that sounds really important and  someone like me would already know  something  you know this really weird sense of  egotism now  talk to melissa about how do i how do i  deal with this i've dealt with this in  the world realm of pure politics i've  dealt with this you know uh in  application of things like  the history of cambodia  history of thailand history vietnam  history of china things that fewer  people really read about know about and  you know one of the reasons i'm so  practicing this was i had to deal with  this within my own family all the time  i had to confront my father all the time  and say  look barry  have you ever read one book about this  topic  have you read one article about this  topic you have to challenge other people  to really be honest  about how it is they know  the things that they think they know  what is the basis for this certainty you  have you seem to be so certain that you  want to shut me down and insult me and  denigrate me and dismiss me for which is  going to happen if you talk about the  assassination of jfk it's going to  happen people are going to have that  kind of reaction okay so tell me tell me  how do you know  what it is that you think you know this  is  what it is to be an intellectual  when you're an intellectual you are  constantly feeling out the limits of  your knowledge you're constantly feeling  for and challenging the basis of your  assumption of any given assumption the  basis for your assumption the basis  plural for your assumptions you know and  that's why you're always learning like  it is possible to read books that just  reinforce your delusions trust me it's  possible that's what you see in the  world  look at these people who were just uh  protesting with extinction rebellion in  england they have they have a formally  organized communist party there uh  protesting with them they don't see any  problem they they will not allow vegans  to protest with them they don't want to  be associated with veganism but they'll  be associated with quote unquote  revolutionary communists okay it is  totally possible for people to remain  narrowly committed to what is they  believe and only read things that  reinforce it even when within that book  they see something they can't really  understand from the challenges their  beliefs which happens with the bible all  the time  whatever it is you want to believe about  oh well did you notice that god has a  wife  what do you mean what no i've read the  whole bible from cover to cover no you  haven't you didn't notice the part where  god had a wife  it's kind of kind of significant you  know like there were there were some big  problems there was some big  inconsistencies within the bible about  who god is and oh and did you notice  that god has more than one name do you  notice that sometimes he's yahweh but  sometimes he's this other completely  different god no  like oh i guess you haven't really read  the bible like did you notice that this  was you know composed from different  pieces of what formerly was a  polytheistic religion like you know  dude another one most christians oh but  do you notice the parts that are in  support of human sacrifice  well what do you mean  christians don't support human sacrifice  the bible doesn't support human rights  yes it does and when i was uh this is  very memorable to me but the the one  time i talked to henia via skype or  equivalent  haniel was trying to tell me that um uh  the jewish religion that like orthodox  judaism supports veganism  i said what do you think it's obligatory  to sacrifice animals and and eat there  most people use term corbin  and you know she was shocked  and i think on some level she knew this  and like you know i had to kind of  confront her with it a bit more like on  some level like oh right it's not a  brief thing in the bible like how could  you have read the bible and not know  that it requires animal sacrifice like  what bible were you  i'm just saying there are a lot of  things i do like and appreciate  about western society about western  civilization but we have this way of not  reading books we have this way of not  seeing the evidence that's right in  front of our face and it's really really  deep in our culture it's how we relate  to the bible it's how we relate to the  american constitution you know it  infuriates me to hear debates with the  constitution which are  by the way i'm not some kind of  uncritical supporter of the american  institution i'm a critic of the  constitution i can see its advantages i  can see its disadvantages do you want to  debate with me what the constitution  says about the right to own guns the  right to bear arms like this is not a  debate like you know the text is  completely unambiguous you know uh this  way of only we have this deeply  ingrained culture of seeing what you  want to see  disregarding everything to the contrary  and then being tremendously morally  self-righteous about it and i'm just  saying being an intellectual it's not  just the accumulation of the number of  books you've read so i'm going to read  your comments here but there's some  people are mentioning examples of  marxists whether you're talking about a  communist or a buddhist you can meet  people who have read  100 books  but they're not intellectuals  you know because if you were an  intellectual you would have noticed  these things you would have questioned  these things you would have you know you  would have in effect become a cr critic  of communism you would become a critic  of buddhism and you would you would  really know and understand all of these  all these inconsistencies and so on  so  just say  um  look  okay we're going to talk about this on a  larger scale longer time  what if there is some  law of physics that at any given time  only one percent of the population can  be  intellectuals there's like a maximum  limit for how many intellectuals it's  one percent  some of you probably feel this way for  me this is hypothetical  what if  whether we're talking about iran or  thailand  or cambodia or canada or denmark  everywhere in the world for some reason  there's a maximum limit where only one  percent of people can be intellectuals  don't you think there's still a really  big difference  between living in thailand  living in iran living in canada  living in denmark like  the role of intellectuals in our society  the status of intellectual or society  like what it means to be intellectual  how anyone has any  consequence  if  if only one percent of people are going  to be intellectuals  should james aspie be leading the vegan  movement  should any of these people should henia  and you should should freely like you  know we still have a problem here guys  like even if that's not flexible even if  we can't hope to pump it up from one  percent to three percent of the  population who are intellectuals the  status of those intellectuals in society  the status of those intellectuals on  social media the status of those  intellectuals within a small scale  example like like the vegan movement  right still really matters it's still  going to make a huge tremendous  difference and we all know it  everyone here knows veganism is  anti-intellectual are you [ __ ]  kidding me veganism is this  anti-intellectual it's okay i'm gonna  say for real veganism is more  anti-intellectual than hip-hop music  it's possible to be an intellectual in  hip-hop and rap music it's possible to  be appreciated for that it's possible to  boast about it too veganism is  completely deeply dyed in the wool  anti-intellectual right now look it's  not my problem  but you know catholicism is  anti-intellectual buddhism is  anti-intellectual like really all of  these things you know like what is the  status of intellectuals in any of these  movements and are they  intellectual movements do you say and  this is a question that comes down to  says big stale and small scale like  small scale would be something like the  vegan movement and you can think about  it as an individual  i got a piece of fan mail recently i  believe the guy said he was 17 years old  17 year old guy and  relatively recently he discovered my  channel and he said he was watching all  the videos that are in season two so  he's seen now many many many of my  videos and you know  i can take a compliment but here's the  problem he said i have never seen any  other youtube channel like about a sale  i don't know of any other youtube  channels  i agree  i don't think there are any others i  don't think there are intellectuals on  youtube i don't you know  can i can i plumb the depths of my  memory to try to find a counter example  i don't know any i'm going to say for  years i don't know any intellectuals in  the vegan movement who's going to  interview me who's going to look at and  look at who actually has i've reached  out to and collaborate with all kinds of  people and you know again being a  medical doctor doesn't make you an  intellectual trust me having a phd does  not make you intellectual this is not  about formal educational damage nor nor  informal right so i'm just saying there  is actually a really big problem here  you know if this is it like you know and  again i  nobody can have an omniscient knowledge  of every single  youtube channel or anything like this  but i so i own a copy of the new york  times from this sunday i could bet you  money i don't think there's a single  article in the new york times written by  an intellectual in this issue i'm not  saying the whole history of the  newspaper i'm sure once in a while  there's some once in a while they have a  book review written by somebody who's a  real intellectual once in a while  somewhere there's an op-ed column but  someone who's really actually i you know  what i hope but like seriously i've been  through several copies of this where we  go through every page and look at  everything in the in the newspaper okay  i don't i don't need the prop but all  right melissa's handing me the newspaper  i  do actually have a copy of the new york  times here in case you don't believe me  i got it for free one story didn't pay  for it  and we're not even gonna read one  percent of it but anyway uh  you know uh  yeah  it's really a much deeper much more  serious problem that there aren't 10  other youtube channels like mine that  there aren't a hundred other youtube  channels uh like mine and the pages of  the new york times whether you're  talking about elite level discourse or  local discourse the pages new york times  are not crowded with intellectuals we  have a local newspaper here  called the victoria times colonist  so wherever you live if you live in  detroit it's the detroit free press like  today local newspapers are very humble  there's not a lot of money in them you  know what even if you live near a  university look at the [ __ ]  university newspaper  there is nothing intellectual about  university publications of universities  there is nothing  you you sure you did work yours  oh yeah oh okay  okay you know i was i was involved with  the university newspaper well anyway  nothing's wrong it's funny we never talk  about it or it doesn't come out much  okay anyway you know you can go through  pick up your local university newspaper  or look at a small local newspaper you  go through every page is there a single  article here written by an intellectual  is this in any way trying to be  intellectual  and it's not you know  so  yeah  what was the title of this video  so we're living through an epoch of  fake intellectuals yes the title is fake  intellectuals fake revolutionaries fake  vegans okay so guys i can answer your  question i can wrap it up i mean i think  the part i've said the least about but  many of you will know how i feel about  it already i've said the least about the  fake revolutionaries but i i made a  series of videos really like a trilogy  of videos here that i really recommend  you guys watch don't miss them  um  where i'm talking about what's been  going on with um  ancient rebellion what's been going on  with the  most high  um  [Music]  you know anti-climate change uh  ecological activist group  and it's incredibly worrying  but it's even more bizarre now because  here we are  two weeks two and a half weeks later  and you know they made these so that  that's the trilogy of videos if you guys  don't already know them they they made  these bombastic promises of you know  frankly revolutionary promises and we  we've all gotten the seniors to just how  false those were  yeah it would be a very different thing  to be living through a period of time  where we had fake intellectuals but real  revolutionaries  or perhaps real intellectuals but fake  revolutionaries but all three are really  fake right now in uh 2021 you know um  fake intellectuals fake revolutionaries  and fake vegans  okay so baby if you want to say  something you can jump in but i'm going  to look at the comments from the  audience but you count you you also can  comment  so uh  like anne says this could be a cambodian  name uh like an and if it's not i'd  pronounce it their way  it could be leuch  anyway  uh like anne says  um  why is there so much  pseudo-intellectualism nowadays  i mean i think there were two sides to  that  one aspect is  just that there are so few real  intellectuals that it creates some kind  of reward  for being a fake intellectual and the  other is that nobody wants to be the  jerk nobody wants to be the [ __ ] who  debunks  a pseudo-intellectual  and it's so easy to do it's so easy to  prove that these people don't know what  they're talking about  like  just in this very simple haven't done  the reading and so on and they're not  really committed to the things they they  pretend they are  but you know okay let's be real  people spend far less time having  face-to-face interactions with other  human beings now maybe than any other  point in history you know  people are primarily now pseudo  intellectuals like on instagram  you know  um and it's a very different thing even  to meet someone in a coffee shop and  really sit there face to face  and slug it out  so we told this story before we've told  it recently one of the videos they  talking about buddhism  i sat down in a coffee shop in chiang  mai thailand it was a vegan activist  meeting  some of those people knew who i was and  the particular guy we're talking about  didn't  because i'm a little bit famous  especially in chiang mai especially  amongst vegans  um  you know i sat down with this guy and he  was so used to frankly being a  pseudo-intellectual being a pseudo  expert  about buddhism and about their  relationship between buddhism and  veganism well guess who just  entered the room like guess who you're  sitting at a [ __ ] coffee shop table  with like i am in a position to hand  this guy his ass  on this issue i mean you know i i and  look there's a question here i'm i do i  know more than any other person who  speaks english on this topic well there  are some other people who know about  this stuff but they won't be honest with  you like there are some buddhist monks  in robes who are experts but they're not  so like of all the people you meet in  the whole planet there are incredibly  few who know this stuff who've done  their research and who will really talk  to you about it in an honest way  um yeah  and again like in a sense i don't even  blame the buddhist monks like if that's  who you are and that's what you're  committed to you can't really expect  those guys to  engage in an honest open-ended critique  of their religion that way and you know  and to really explain why it is that the  vast majority of buddhists do eat meat  and always have  uh going back to the era when the the  ancient writings were actually written  you know when the ancient scriptures  were written  um  now okay i mean melissa was there i  didn't break this guy down i didn't make  him cry i wasn't an [ __ ] like i was a  little bit kind of ironical but i also  thought he would be more willing to  actually talk about it with me and learn  from me  um  i was hoping he'd be more of an  intellectual but no it was just like  pressing play on a tape recorder he was  just doing this routine and he was not  willing to ask himself how he knows the  things he thinks he knows where this  these assumptions come from where the  certainty comes from you know so  you know why is there so much pseudo  intellectuals nowadays because there are  rewards for being a pseudo-intellectual  and there are seemingly no  punishments there are no real  negative consequences so let's mention  that check um  claire michelle  you know so and again how this is  face-to-face is different than it would  be like if people were actually sitting  in a coffee shop so claire michelle who  i've criticized in my youtube channel  for years  occasionally less than once a year i  think you know claire michelle  she says these ridiculous things about  religion ridiculous things about  politics ridiculous things but economics  even and ridiculous things about our own  life and diet and spirituality  she posts those things on instagram  who is going to  shoot her down who is going to this is a  really old-fashioned face bust her chops  do you remember when people used to say  that going back in the 1920s seriously  who is really gonna say look you don't  know what you're talking about you know  this could be anything it can even be  about nutrition there are people who  like to make certain statements about  nutrition and diet and someone say look  how how do you know these things that  you think you know where is this coming  from you know you get into a very  different very different conversation  uh  and instead i mean you can go to her  instagram uh sorry claire michelle  yeah right plentiful soul is her thing  you know all you're gonna see is people  giving her the thumbs up embracing her  applauding her  i don't even know if one in a hundred  comments are gonna be are gonna be  negative and when they are negative they  don't accomplish anything when they're  negative someone says you're an airhead  someone says you're an airhead or you're  a hippie or something it doesn't it  doesn't really get into doesn't really  get into the issues now look you know  again i have experience  really sitting down with communists and  trying to deprogram them  really saying no like i understand this  is what you believe about history but  that's wrong that's a lie and asking  questions and bringing it together  you know trying to make people aware of  the extent to which they are living a  lie they're they're committed to a whole  a whole series of lies um but but that's  incredibly rare and i mean for any of  you in the audience if you reflect on  your own life about something you were  wrong about in the past again maybe some  of you used to be communists maybe some  of you used to be christians some who  used to be mormons used to be something  else these besides believing and think  about it who cared enough and who took  the time and who thought it was virtuous  and worthwhile  to sit down with you and try to  deprogram you and try to confront you  with your own pseudo-intellectuals  you know  um  so yeah i'm just sorry i know it's a  it's a short comment  um asking why is there so much  pseudo-intellectuals nowadays but that  that's my that's my real answer  now look think about the period of time  we're living through  um  was george bush  an intellectual  no  was barack obama  an intellectual no he still isn't in his  retirement he isn't was bill clinton an  intellectual no and he still isn't you  know  you know  he's bernie sanders an intellectual my  honest answer is no  alexandria ocasio-cortez  is not an intellectual and she can't  even pretend she's not even  a pseudo-intellectual you know what i  mean is alexandria because your court as  an intellectual like  you know think about and then think  about the rewards for being a  pseudo-intellectual as opposed to the  risks and what and what comes with it  you know now  look you guys just wouldn't know the  names i could go through the list of  professors at my university here like i  could sit here with the list say is this  person intellectual no is this like my  university professors one by one for  those in the audience maybe you haven't  been university if you make a list of  your high school teachers  the gym teacher the math teacher the  english teacher mr mcgregor like you  know the school principal was he an  intellectual no was she an intellectual  no like i think for you also it's going  to be no no no and maybe there's one  exception maybe there's one you remember  oh no no that guy was an intellectual  maybe there was maybe you met one you  know but whether it's your university  professors or it's your high school  teachers you know some of them  might be pseudo intellectuals to the  same extent as bill clinton you know  what i mean they might be on that  intellectual level but yeah you know the  the these are the people we live our  lives  uh  surrounded by and and guys it's very  easy for people to be on an ego trip  just because they're smarter than their  own high school teachers i mean so many  people that's their standard of adequacy  and then normally it's not even that  they're smarter than their school  teachers just they're more cynical um  they spend their whole lives feeling  they're superior  it's a huge huge problem in amongst  atheists  um you know anti-religion activists they  feel they're smarter than their  their high school principal and smarter  than their town uh priest  and they spend their whole lives on an  ego trip as a pseudo intellectual  so yeah sam is saying sam's a longtime  viewer  that he he still catches himself saying  oh my god and when he says bless you too  so i don't sam  i don't i have a number of catchphrases  but in real life i like to say by the  dead gods that's one of my characters  so i've uh i've  i have a number but you guys  by odin's beard  i intentionally have uh non-christian  and atheistic kind of curse words and  you guys didn't know me but i used to  curse in pally i used to curse in the  ancient  language of buddhist scripture  i had a whole different vocabulary so  i've been through several rounds of  training myself to not say uh oh my god  um  to have an exclamation like that when  you stub your toe or when you when you  drop something  yeah just those momentary courses  yeah by the dead gods is a good one  i've got to say i got that idea from  comic books growing up as a kid because  a lot of the fanciful  um villains you know they have some  very they'd have some distinctive curse  words that reflect their ideology partly  because swearing wasn't allowed comic  books you know  um  i remember the russian villains would  say great lenin's ghost  you know it's their equivalent to uh  oh my god that's good  yeah so anyway sam says so obviously  some of this is reach writing stuff  we've just been talking about nothing  wrong with that but sam says so many  self-professed socialists and communists  haven't even read marx london etc  they follow others that distort that  information they certainly haven't  studied the historical reality either  but i think you'll find as life goes on  sam even when you meet the people who  have  they read it in that biblical way  i've been discussing where they even if  they've looked at the page they don't  really see what's there they um yeah  it's a very strange way of not reading  um what's right in front of your eyes  not taking seriously the intent of the  author and i think very consciously or  sorry very much intentionally imposing  your fantasy on the imposing what you  want it to be  uh onto the book and look uh sir this  comes back to again i posted to patreon  um this comes back to the leader of  extinction rebellion i'm sorry so what  was it roger hallam roger hallam roger  hallam is also a crazy christian among  his defects and when you hear this guy  talk about the bible it is 100  personal wish fulfillment it's 100 him  telling you what he wants the bible to  be and represent and not dealing with  uh what it actually says so i post so  often to patreon i have to  scroll down quite a ways here  um  yeah david both got it but anyway i  posted a patreon a link to a video where  you get to hear him for about an hour  uh going on and on about his his frankly  insane  uh religious views so that's the guy  you've got that's now the most prominent  ecological activist on planet earth our  our fate the future of global warming  and having an alternative supposedly in  his hands  um  and as i say there's someone else who  could have that opportunity  and doesn't because he's taking up that  seat there's only so much uh oxygen to  go around and only so many millions of  dollars  it's not just money it's time too it's  only so much time for the volunteers  everyone else involved to be uh to be  doing this so yeah it's a real shame  and nobody checked his credentials  nobody cared to question him and find  out how solid his interpretation of the  bible was before they took this this  plunge  so just reading your comments guys i'm  catching up here various intelligent  comments but i don't know  i don't know what the point is with me  just kind of agreeing with myself  so i mean one person says this is like  anagon uh like ann says  now in the era of information people  have become lazy  so they try to compensate by  regurgitating ideas from others and just  going to be real with you like um or  lych  um  i i haven't even seen that look i i just  i don't oh god we met this one guy who  quoted nietzsche from memory uh melissa  knows what i'm thinking of  uh  you know the bodybuilder guy oh yeah he  would actually go around quoting  nietzsche but like in my whole life  people who even  quote and regurgitate ideas from other  people it's very rare  i don't even see that like i don't see  and again  look at the university newspaper look at  your local newspaper and you can even  look at the new york times you can look  at international  newspapers i don't see people even  trying to be intellectuals you know and  again look i despise the philosophy of  friedrich nietzsche i am not a fan of  nietzsche and i have made youtube videos  talking about that uh  but obviously like it indicates when i  met this bodybuilder and like right at  the start you started quoting nietzsche  like there really wasn't much context  for it you know um  okay you can tell this is a guy who's  read these books and he's he's really  trying to present himself as to some  extent intellectual he's making that  effort but i i don't even see that i  don't see people uh even regurgitating  the  the ideas of others  i have already forgotten his name but  recently you and i were talking about a  another pseudo-intellectual  who  is not vegan but  has been known as a food expert  and has claimed her name is that he  wrote a book  about psychedelics oh god  yeah i don't remember that guy's name  either yeah yeah  yeah did you have a thing that is now  being embraced  that  people who have done psychedelics are  somehow  intellectuals  yeah  anyway look it's sad you know i so i'm  just i'm being a hundred percent honest  you guys  actually this comes back to the comment  from patreon that i made this  recording in response to you know i do  not believe  that  the enjoyment of life  and being an intellectual  are mutually exclusive i don't think  that one is an alternative to the other  i don't think that you either choose to  enjoy life or being intellectual i think  intellectuals are the people who really  enjoy life you know what i mean  really  i really believe that that's really what  i am that's my lived experience that's  what i embody and know and what have you  and you know if you put it in any  particular  uh  you know particular workplace you can  see that easily enough  so you know it's a bit of a stereotype  in the army that in every unit there's  one guy reading nietzsche  there's one guy reading books of  philosophy of some kind but it's often  nietzsche  you know  um you know out of that army unit you  know who's the happiest guy who's  leading the most meaningful life like  you all got to sleep in the same tent at  night kind of thing you know you're all  living in the same conditions you all  eat the same meal out of a bag you know  think of mres  rations that come in a plastic bag but  you know you're living the same  lifestyle in so many ways you're  marching up and down the same hill but  one of you has brought a book with you  one of you was leading the life of the  mind a little bit in your spare time you  know i do not view being intellectual  as the opposite of hedonism you know as  the opposite of of the enjoyment of life  what we have right now on a massive  scale is a kind of false  hedonism you know and it's it's people  getting rich and getting famous by  encouraging others to use mind-altering  drugs to get high and also body-altering  drugs using stuff like steroids and  psalms i'm talking about on my channel  you know um it's people  encouraging one another to quote unquote  enjoy life  and what they call the enjoyment of life  is  misery so i'll come back to this this  comment uh from my patreon  i don't believe that intellectuals are  the people who are alcoholics and  committing suicide i just don't believe  it that's not my vision of intellectual  at all i would not be surprised at all  if i learned that right now uh george rr  martin is suicidal he certainly has been  at some point in the past he's talked  you know a lot of his books have talked  about being suicidal and lonely and  depressed and they've talked some of  them talked about hallucinogenic drug  use and alcohol too i don't know to what  extent those things are part of his past  but he's he's written about them okay  how much does george r martin weigh i  mean you know he's he's grotesquely  obese and has been for  most of his life he sits there watching  sports as this tremendously uh obese  old man you know it's very easy to look  at him and again you just look at him  and look at his writing and say no this  guy would be much happier you know as uh  as as an intellectual you know i i just  say i mean i totally understand all the  comments that i read to you from patreon  from from both sides they were  you know genuinely well intentioned you  know it's  they were not they were not being overly  uh harsh or contrary to relation to me  nor in relation to  to one another  um but no you know what what i'm here to  say is that is not being an intellectual  and it's it's not  you know  every so often i hear that the super  bowl is on you know i'm like i'm walking  down the street and there's a poster or  so like something obstructs my path to  inform me that the super bowl is  happening do you think i ever once  regret that i've been reading this book  you know whatever it is that i've been  writing this book that i've been making  youtube videos talking to you guys  instead of watching this you ruled  everything oh  i missed the super bowl like the the  pleasures that non-intellectuals become  addicted to they are so paltry they are  so despicable compared to what the life  of the mind has to offer you and i  really mean that now look guys  every single one of you at some point  has been to the dentist  and been on painkillers you've had teeth  removed or had some kind of operation  where you were given painkillers and  they may be exactly the same opiates  that people on the street are addicted  to as as drugs you know  and  like you know i'm telling you  you know as an objective fact  heroin is not pleasant  opiates are not pleasant fentanyl is not  pleasant using  opium or fentanyl  is not happiness it doesn't make you  happy and at the other end of the drug  spectrum using stimulants using cocaine  using caffeine is not happiness it  doesn't make you happy like there's a  very fundamental you know  misinterpretation of what happiness is  whether we're talking about  hallucinogenics like you know  psychedelic hallucinations or you're  talking about these these other kinds of  of drugs  you know so now you know this even  extends to to alcohol of course you know  so look i i know it's really easy to  think that the life of the mind is the  opposite of the uh the life of the body  you know that somehow this is a  sacrifice of of true happiness in order  to you know in order to live the life of  the mind but you don't know on a really  deep level this whole conversation for  me is presumed the exact opposite that's  wrong and look as i say you've been to  the dentist  or any of you today going to think oh  if only i could have that feeling again  that i had when i was stumbling on my  way out of the dentist's office that day  if only i could recapture that feeling  of being sedated and on painkillers when  i left the dentist that day that that's  something intoxicating and appealing to  you now look as i say i'm not going to  deny that there is a sense in which  these things are pleasant  you know but they are incredibly poultry  pleasures  compared to the life of the mind once  you've got it compared to being a real  intellectual and you get to a certain  point where  you don't even have to read anything  more today like i could sit on a park  bench watching the sunset and i have so  much to think about you know in terms of  the things i've read in the past and  what it is i'm gonna write next what it  is i'm working on what i'm doing as a  creative artist you know even if that's  thinking about my next youtube video it  might not be you know but i am i'm  writing a book right now whatever it is  you're doing but like  sitting on a park bench doing nothing  sitting still with my thoughts  is more valuable to me  than the poultry pleasure you might get  from becoming high on opioids it's more  valuable to me than whatever pleasure  there is in watching baseball watching  football or so on and and we know that  we know that because we've lived it and  i know a lot of people they've never had  the experience they've never even  thought it through they've never thought  about oh wow what if i develop my mind  to such a point that i genuinely can't  enjoy watching football anymore where i  regard sitting in front of the tv  watching football as a waste of my time  compared to turning off the tv and  sitting there on the couch and just  looking at the blank tv screen like i'm  not joking that's better for me that's  more you know  that's what it is to really enjoy your  life that's what it is to be an  intellectual the life of the mind you  know you have with you  always whether you're sitting on the  couch or you're sitting in a in a prison  cell now i'll just end this by saying  look  you know i asked you before  when you look at a situation where  everybody has the same job so  everybody's working at starbucks  together or everyone's in the army  sleeping in the same tent marching up  and down the same hill together so okay  so who's the happiest guy in this army  unit or who's the happiest guy working  at this starbucks really it's going to  be the one who has the life of the mind  it's going to be the one who's an  intellectual uh what even if they're a  beginner or intellectual but if they're  if there's somebody who's really an  advanced intellectual you can be happy  working at starbucks you could be happy  you know uh  working at mcdonald's or serving in the  army because the life of the mind you  already have with you  you have a meaningful life  and you bring it with you everywhere you  go and you have the analytical capacity  and detachment to apply to all things in  your life great and small you know  but you know the saddest thing of all is  man  you don't have to be talking about a  prison cell look around any classroom  at a university  it's so [ __ ] sad and i've been in  that situation so many times  where i sit down you know in the small  crowd in a university classroom by the  way  sometimes there are eight people you  know a lot of time i got to know all  eight of the other students in the class  you know sometimes it's 20 people  whatever i'm not talking about sitting  down with hundreds of people i'm not  generalizing about people i don't know i  really got to know what the other things  where i'm sitting down in the class  and as the lecture starts or as the  discussion with the professor starts  because you know this discussion format  where you sit in a circle and just go  through  everyone else in the class is  radiating the sense of  i shouldn't be here  this isn't for me  i don't really understand this i don't  you know they're they're radiating you  absolutely see it in their body language  and when they're forced to speak in what  they say and how they say they are  radiating the sense of this isn't for me  i'm i'm not in my domain i'm in the  wrong place and i'm the one person in  the room who's sitting there completely  self-confident completely oh oh  oh this is for me  this is what i'm cut out for you know  what i mean and i think you guys know i  think you guys can can imagine a lot of  the time i'm a lot more comfortable than  the professor and a lot of the time i  know more about the subject than the  professor  oh and god it can be something i have no  prior familiarity with i have no prior  education oh okay great and guys i can  be the one  behind the podium too just as easily i  can get up with no preparation take over  teaching the class so  you know i just say like  being on a university campus  it's the most wince inducing it's the  most painful  because if you're in prison or if you're  in an army unit there's no expectation  that anyone should be an intellectual  with anyone should pretend and when  you're on the university campus you know  exactly what the opportunity is that's  been offered to these people and exactly  how it is that they're they're  squandering it  i thought of his name michael pollan  a professor right that's the kind of  person that you're seeing on campus  okay guys thanks dude again  i got another one to say um  [Music]  you know when my ex-wife was going  through her phd  i remember she asked some of the people  who had already  completed their phds for for advice  and  most of them  and sorry i should clarify a little bit  this is very specific advice like  how did you get a translator set up to  do this and what form did that because  my ex-wife's phd dealt with  chinese and then an indigenous minority  language than china  and who did you speak to at this  institute to get this done so this  wasn't um  life advice this wasn't advice about how  to live a meaningful life right  intellectual specific advice related to  how to how to finish the phd  and  one of the most common answers she got  from these people  slight variations in wording was  um  nobody helped me so i'm not going to  help you  uh nobody helped me when i was in your  position i had to figure all this stuff  out for myself  so you're  you're just gonna have to figure it out  for yourself also so she heard that a  lot should learn from people and you  know i don't know to what extent they  were embittered  or to what extent they just accepted  their place in society that this is how  the world works you know that now  they're on top because they've finished  their phd or they're a professor or  whatever  and  you know that they embrace the system  that for so many years took their money  away but now is making them them wealthy  it has now given this this position of  power uh to  them you know  it's a choice  i've said i know some of you guys may  regard this as like something of no  significance when i say it in passing in  these videos but when i say things like  look i grew up watching batman 2.  i grew up watching sesame street too  i grew up watching these terrible movies  i didn't have positive role models  my school teachers were not  intellectuals my schools were terrible  primary school and high school my  university was terrible my university  teachers were not intellectuals  university professors you know and  even on the level of pop culture  um for my generation what were we  supposed to look to  as an example  of being an intellectual  i'm going to tell you right now  kurt cobain  and i think this comes back to exactly  the wording of this comment i got on  patreon where someone says oh well why  are so many intellectuals lonely and  miserable and either commit suicide or  die because they're alcoholics  you're not thinking about an  intellectual  you're thinking about kurt cobain  who who was an intellectual in terms of  what  film and television and music uh you  know and look let's let's just let's  just be clear here  it is neither more nor less ridiculous  to say kurt cobain is an intellectual  than it is to say elvis presley was an  intellectual  they are at the same level okay and how  about uh the beatles you know  we looked up remember the bet in for  peace with the beatles  jesus  yeah yoko ono and the the jesus christ  you know and that's true that's a  different generation that's not my  generation maybe for my parents  generation they think you don't feel a  little bit older than my parents to be  young enough to be naive like that when  that happened but anyway um  you know i'm certain there were people  who regarded john lennon and the beatles  as intellectuals  and uh  you know  kurt cobain  was not an intellectual  um jerry seinfeld  is not  an intellectual you know  um  i i mentioned this recently to uh to  oliver oliver has his own youtube  channel and he was shocked i said to him  look when i was your age like  i had no idea how to be an intellectual  and i was going and watching like art  cinema from france which was not  intellectual but you know black and  white films from france you know  supposedly made by in four intellectuals  they  uh i've never remember one italian  director also getting is getting his  films out because this was supposedly  the most intellectual stuff in the  history of filmmaking and it's like gee  how to be a self-pitying middle-aged  white man who cheats on your wife and  like you know  it's just you know  sorry it's it's as ridiculous as calling  jerry seinfeld intellectuals this is  ridiculous as calling i was president  it's just not at all  and um  you know woody allen  woody allen supposedly america's great  intellectual filmmaker watch interiors  by woody allen  again so you know  look i mean this relates back to also oh  great great example from the audience  george carlin  wow  no no that's deep so for me i never was  a follower of georgetown but that's a  good that's a great example from mx2 in  the audience and i've known so many  people who were formed were really  shaped by that or that's what they think  yeah rather than jerry seinfeld it's a  better example that they think of george  carlin and george carlin's interview on  the tonight show like him the way he  would give interviews they think that's  you know that's what it is to be an  intellectual and no in absolutely no  sense george gardiner was not  intellectual whatsoever that's just as  ridiculous as imagining elvis presley  you know being intellectual so yeah  before i said part of our problem and  why we have so many pseudo-intellectuals  is the absence of  any positive examples as as as  any positive examples of intellectual  enough another great one came in mother  teresa  people think that you know sorry not me  but definitely there are catholics who  look up to some figures like that as oh  these are the intellectual leaders of  the  of the church uh you know and  like today if you want to talk about the  right wing uh what about what's his name  ben shapiro you know those guys right  wing but they've always there's always  been someone like him there's always  been a kind of right-wing  radio talk show host who who pretends to  know it all you know  right sure right yeah for you'd have to  be the right generation for some number  of decades ago uh someone like rush  limbaugh someone like ben shapiro right  so sir before i was saying there's the  absence of  real intellectuals right but we're also  growing up with really  fake examples  of what intellectual is or what they're  supposed to be wow sorry a little water  i didn't i didn't see this i just wasn't  looking wow  grace this this cut steve  william shakespeare  [ __ ] true it's so true bro no i mean  shakespeare was not  an intellectual and shakespeare's plays  there is nothing intellectual about them  nothing nothing you know i  you know same thing with george rr  martin  i'm not going to say shakespeare was a  bad writer  oh george r.r martin is also a good  writer don't get me wrong i mean if you  you feel like a nice turn of phrase you  know what i mean but that's that's not  what we're talking about but no yeah  read read shakespeare's sonnets if you  want to know how much of intellectually  was  uh  yeah no i mean william shakespeare he  really was i mean  he he was the you know  um he was the the beatles of his day you  know what can i tell you you know he was  the you know  yeah  um  [Music]  so yeah most of us we come into this  game with this real disadvantage at this  real kind of deficit  and  you know it's a choice i'm not gonna be  like those  those uh  you know phd supervisors and so on my my  ex-wife was talking about these other  phd students phd candidates who  surrounded her at cambridge and oxford  you know my attitude is not like well  nobody helped me  so i'm not going to help you you know no  i i really think it can make a  tremendous difference um if for some  people in this audience and by the way i  was talking with us the other day with a  friend of mine is a university professor  um  so she she said she's a friend of mine's  university professor and she she said oh  well the young people who watch your  channel  she was suggesting they were maybe  disillusioned followers of jordan  peterson totally reasonable theory like  oh these are like 17 year olds who  figured out jordan peterson is full of  [ __ ] that cohen johnson and one person  said back to us look  they're not all 17.  there are guys who are 35  who write into me and say hey look  only now after watching your youtube  channel do i realize i need to quit  playing video games you know what i mean  like they realize the importance of  quitting video games only now after  watching youtube channel do i realize my  own ignorance under headings x y and z  and i have to hit the books and so many  people wrote to me so many i can't  estimate the number who wrote to me or  someone got in touch with me and said  hey look only now do i realize my whole  approach to political activism is wrong  that they approached to vegan activism  or  maybe in some cases anti-war activism  you know peace activism ecological  activism but it's mostly vegan activism  where they realize whoa i now realize my  approach to political activism is  completely wrong i've been doing the  wrong thing for 10 years so it's not i  just say it's not just 17 year old boys  it's not even predominantly uh young  boys i think you can be a middle-aged  man i think you could be 40 years old or  you could be 50 years old and discover  this youtube channel and go whoa  there are guys who are in their 40s and  50s and they have spent their lives  trying to live like you know kurt cobain  there are you know there are people  who've been really you know pursuing  uh  false idols you know for all these years  and you know the good news is  if you have breath in your lungs still  you know it is not too late  uh for you to change  i'll say this too you know part of  nihilism is that you do not believe in  fate you do not believe in  destiny and even if you're an atheist  it's really easy to slip into that way  of thinking you know okay i have so many  brothers well whatever all of you in the  audience have brother sisters you just  think oh yeah  that brother of mine he was always going  to be an alcoholic that sister of mine  was always going to be a drug addict and  this one was always  you know he never could have made it  through college he was always going to  be a college dropout it's really easy to  look at things that way and if you're  being honest with yourself and really  examining your own life it's like no  at this particular time i read this  particular book for this particular  reason and it changed if i had read a  different book or if i just hadn't read  that book you know i like i guess again  the accuracy of my own memory you know i  hold myself very accountable that way  i'm aware that there wasn't any destiny  there wasn't any fate to this i could  have ended up just as brainless as my  own older brothers you know i know these  ideas came into my life in a in a very  particular way  um i saw a science fiction a tv  interview so there's a tv show that  interviewed science fiction uh writers  and one of the mention in passing  dante's inferno  the guy just said something like oh yeah  you know dante's inferno it's one of the  most influential books in the history of  western civilization and then he goes on  to say this thing about his forthcoming  science fiction novel  and i wrote it down  and i went to the library and i i got it  out and i was either 11 years old or 12  years old my father would remember my  father was proud of that for the rest of  his life because he hadn't told me to  read it he was like no you know  he like my father would say like oh no  you were always brilliant like he's  literally said this to me he's like said  like oh no i always knew you were  brilliant you read dante's inferno when  you were 11 years old  i said yeah i didn't know anything  i heard this mentioned on a television  interview that was all i knew i didn't  know anything about this book i didn't  know anything  and i went to the librarian and took it  out now by the way dante's in front did  not change my life forever if anything i  can look back at that and i see the  tragedy where it's like i didn't know  what to read i didn't know how to  educate myself i didn't know how to help  myself and my father as you could tell  was no help you know he was he was no  help at all i remember my father was  tremendously impressed um so the first  book of dante's inferno  i got out of the library  and then he bought me for the next  christmas that came up so a couple  months later he or whatever it was maybe  it was only a few weeks i totally forget  but anyway some time later he then  bought me volume two uh dante's  purgatory but it was by a different uh  translator and he i wasn't putting it on  i was really not happy with it i was  like oh you know i'm sorry but the  quality of the translation it's really  just not as good as the you know the  other book writes or whatever here he  has this 12 year old he just loved it  for him it was an ego trap he felt like  this was his own genetic superiority or  something  i didn't know anything you know i'm  sorry i didn't do anything and that's  that's why i read donnie's in front i  read the whole trilogy you know and it  didn't help me i was reading was the  wrong thing i started another book  something that was more helpful that i  did read and again my father was  tremendously impressed by and he didn't  he didn't tell me about it i didn't  learn about it from my father but you  know i read oh babe do you want to grab  your copy of uh plutarch so i just  bought melissa a gift i bought melissa a  copy of plutarch's lives  it's a nice loeb edition of of plutarch  um  but you know i remember exactly the  circumstances in which i was standing in  a bookstore and i never heard of this  book before i never heard that i didn't  know anything and i stood there and pick  it up and i'm reading the back cover and  i'm flipping through it i think it was  1.99 like it was an incredibly cheap  book and you know even then when i next  talked to my father about it which is  the next day or dare to claire i was  like so you know i found this this this  book and it's just titled lives you know  pluto  you know  i didn't i didn't even know it was a  famous i was like well it seems to be  you know  you know see it seems to be the basis  for shakespeare's you know julius caesar  and like you know  like i i knew nothing about this stuff  and it's you know it's just like sorry  in in my case i'm not going to  generalize i'm not going to say this is  what all of you in the audience i've got  to tell you in my case i feel  the the  the extent to which this was just luck  this was just happenstance and i can  also feel and i can regret and resent  you know the unfortunate happenstance  that i didn't have that i didn't have  better luck that i read the wrong books  that i had such a bad education and that  nobody helped me and nobody got me that  nobody told me how to be intellectual  what i had to learn in any way you know  and you know step by step step i made it  out of you know the the ignorance that  was i was born into  uh but for me i mean the very accuracy  of my memory and looking back in my life  i think makes it impossible for me to be  deluded  into thinking there was any kind of  destiny or fate or even any kind of  redeeming quality on my part that that  that set me apart from from other people  i mean look you know what is the so what  is the redeeming quality  i heard about this book i knew nothing  about dante's inferno  that was it was just mentioned that it  was one of the most important books in  the history of the world and i wanted to  know more  like that's it that's the quality i had  you know i saw a copy of plutarch's  lives  and  i wanted to know more you know what i  mean and i wasn't satisfied with  mediocrity and uh sorry uh ultimately  you know i mean these other people we've  mentioned you know there's also the  dissatisfaction you know shakespeare  wasn't enough for me karl marx wasn't i  thought that karl marx was shallow and  dumb you know i mean so we can go  through all these lists of kind of great  great people but you know that i wasn't  satisfied with  um  the band nirvana sir kurt cobain i  wasn't satisfied with the supposed  genius of kurt cobain the way like  everyone else in my generation was  so you know there was a fundamental  sense of dissatisfaction that there had  to be something better  uh somewhere  so yeah  um  yeah that's the end  [Laughter]  you know i i get it i think it's really  easy to go through that  that process and you know i went through  it with so many different fields i went  through with buddhism i went through  with korean ojibwe i went through it  with you know the ancient greek stuff i  went through with you know with learning  chinese as a language and with  everything related to chinese language  and chinese politics and went through  with academia itself without  universities work and it's really easy  to come out of that with this embittered  sense of  nobody helped me so nobody's going to  help you either but as you guys know  i've come out of i've come out of the  experience instead with this this  commitment to the opposite when one one  of the first really important articles i  published about buddhism was dealing  with on a technical level how to be a  scholar of buddhism it was explaining to  you the structure of the ancient texts  and what they are and really ultimately  what you should read and which versions  of the text you have to compare  and it openly stated it was  presented as a lecture in cambodia to  people growing up in cambodia who don't  even have the advantages we have like  growing up speaking english saying okay  if you're born and raised in cambodia  you want to be a scholar of buddhism you  really know nothing what do you need to  know you know so just say already at  that stage i was really trying to help  the next generation of scholars uh even  within buddhism and i've been trying to  help the next generation of vegan  activists and ecological activists and  and and intellectuals of every kind  and you know  i'm i'm willing to talk about my  mistakes and say no  you don't have to make the same mistakes  i did and the great thing about youtube  is even if i die tomorrow  you know like there is this really  meaningful sense in which this is here  for you this is here for someone who's  born 10 years from now or you know  whether it's 10 years now or 100 years  now or whatever there's this sense in  which you know nobody has to make the  same mistakes i did ever again and  nobody has to grow up only with their  choice between elvis presley and uh and  woody allen for models of uh of what it  means to be an intellectual  mmm